8.4.3.  ACK-on-Error Mode

   The ACK-on-Error mode supports L2 technologies that have variable MTU
   and out-of-order delivery.  It requires an L2 that provides a
   feedback path from the reassembler to the fragmenter.  See Appendix F
   for a discussion on using ACK-on-Error mode on quasi-bidirectional
   links.

   In ACK-on-Error mode, windows are used.

   All tiles except the last one and the penultimate one MUST be of
   equal size, hereafter called "regular".  The size of the last tile
   MUST be smaller than or equal to the regular tile size.  Regarding
   the penultimate tile, a Profile MUST pick one of the following two
   options:

   *  The penultimate tile size MUST be the regular tile size, or

   *  the penultimate tile size MUST be either the regular tile size or
      the regular tile size minus one L2 Word.

   A SCHC Fragment message carries one or several contiguous tiles,
   which may span multiple windows.  A SCHC ACK reports on the reception
   of exactly one window of tiles.

   See Figure 23 for an example.

           +---------------------------------------------...-----------+
           |                       SCHC Packet                         |
           +---------------------------------------------...-----------+

   Tile#   | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 | 4 |     | 0 | 4 |3|
   Window# |-------- 0 --------|-------- 1 --------|- 2  ... 27 -|- 28-|


   SCHC Fragment msg   |-----------|

       Figure 23: SCHC Packet Fragmented in Tiles, ACK-on-Error Mode

   The W field is wide enough that it unambiguously represents an
   absolute window number.  The fragment receiver sends SCHC ACKs to the
   fragment sender about windows for which tiles are missing.  No SCHC
   ACK is sent by the fragment receiver for windows that it knows have
   been fully received.

   The fragment sender retransmits SCHC Fragments for tiles that are
   reported missing.  It can advance to next windows even before it has
   ascertained that all tiles belonging to previous windows have been
   correctly received, and it can still later retransmit SCHC Fragments
   with tiles belonging to previous windows.  Therefore, the sender and
   the receiver may operate in a decoupled fashion.  The fragmented SCHC
   Packet transmission concludes when:

   *  integrity checking shows that the fragmented SCHC Packet has been
      correctly reassembled at the receive end, and this information has
      been conveyed back to the sender, or

   *  too many retransmission attempts were made, or

   *  the receiver determines that the transmission of this fragmented
      SCHC Packet has been inactive for too long.

   Each Profile MUST specify which RuleID value(s) corresponds to SCHC
   F/R messages operating in this mode.

   The W field MUST be present in the SCHC F/R messages.

   Each Profile, for each RuleID value, MUST define:

   *  the tile size (a tile does not need to be multiple of an L2 Word,
      but it MUST be at least the size of an L2 Word),

   *  the value of M,

   *  the value of N,

   *  the value of WINDOW_SIZE, which MUST be strictly less than 2^N,

   *  the size and algorithm for the RCS field,

   *  the value of T,

   *  the value of MAX_ACK_REQUESTS,

   *  the expiration time of the Retransmission Timer,

   *  the expiration time of the Inactivity Timer,

   *  if the last tile is carried in a Regular SCHC Fragment or an All-1
      SCHC Fragment (see Section 8.4.3.1), and

   *  if the penultimate tile MAY be one L2 Word smaller than the
      regular tile size.  In this case, the regular tile size MUST be at
      least twice the L2 Word size.

   For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the sender MUST
   maintain:

   *  one Attempts counter, and

   *  one Retransmission Timer.

   For each active pair of RuleID and DTag values, the receiver MUST
   maintain:

   *  one Inactivity Timer, and

   *  one Attempts counter.

8.4.3.1.  Sender Behavior

   At the beginning of the fragmentation of a new SCHC Packet:

   *  the fragment sender MUST select a RuleID and DTag value pair for
      this SCHC Packet.  A Rule MUST NOT be selected if the values of M
      and WINDOW_SIZE for that Rule are such that the SCHC Packet cannot
      be fragmented in (2^M) * WINDOW_SIZE tiles or less.

   *  the fragment sender MUST initialize the Attempts counter to 0 for
      that RuleID and DTag value pair.

   A Regular SCHC Fragment message carries in its payload one or more
   tiles.  If more than one tile is carried in one Regular SCHC
   Fragment:

   *  the selected tiles MUST be contiguous in the original SCHC Packet,
      and

   *  they MUST be placed in the SCHC Fragment Payload adjacent to one
      another, in the order they appear in the SCHC Packet, from the
      start of the SCHC Packet toward its end.

   Tiles that are not the last one MUST be sent in Regular SCHC
   Fragments specified in Section 8.3.1.1.  The FCN field MUST contain
   the tile index of the first tile sent in that SCHC Fragment.

   In a Regular SCHC Fragment message, the sender MUST fill the W field
   with the window number of the first tile sent in that SCHC Fragment.

   A Profile MUST define if the last tile of a SCHC Packet is sent:

   *  in a Regular SCHC Fragment, alone or as part of a multi-tiles
      Payload,

   *  alone in an All-1 SCHC Fragment, or

   *  with any of the above two methods.

   In an All-1 SCHC Fragment message, the sender MUST fill the W field
   with the window number of the last tile of the SCHC Packet.

   The fragment sender MUST send SCHC Fragments such that, all together,
   they contain all the tiles of the fragmented SCHC Packet.

   The fragment sender MUST send at least one All-1 SCHC Fragment.

   In doing the two items above, the sender MUST ascertain that the
   receiver will not receive the last tile through both a Regular SCHC
   Fragment and an All-1 SCHC Fragment.

   The fragment sender MUST listen for SCHC ACK messages after having
   sent:

   *  an All-1 SCHC Fragment, or

   *  a SCHC ACK REQ.

   A Profile MAY specify other times at which the fragment sender MUST
   listen for SCHC ACK messages.  For example, this could be after
   sending a complete window of tiles.

   Each time a fragment sender sends an All-1 SCHC Fragment or a SCHC
   ACK REQ:

   *  it MUST increment the Attempts counter, and

   *  it MUST reset the Retransmission Timer.

   On Retransmission Timer expiration:

   *  if the Attempts counter is strictly less than MAX_ACK_REQUESTS,
      the fragment sender MUST send either the All-1 SCHC Fragment or a
      SCHC ACK REQ with the W field corresponding to the last window,

   *  otherwise, the fragment sender MUST send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and
      it MAY exit with an error condition.

   All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section
   are to be understood as "matching the RuleID and DTag pair being
   processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

   On receiving a SCHC ACK:

   *  if the W field in the SCHC ACK corresponds to the last window of
      the SCHC Packet:

      -  if the C bit is set, the sender MAY exit successfully.

      -  otherwise:

         o  if the Profile mandates that the last tile be sent in an
            All-1 SCHC Fragment:

            +  if the SCHC ACK shows no missing tile at the receiver,
               the sender:

               *  MUST send a SCHC Sender-Abort, and

               *  MAY exit with an error condition.

            +  otherwise:

               *  the fragment sender MUST send SCHC Fragment messages
                  containing all the tiles that are reported missing in
                  the SCHC ACK.

               *  if the last of these SCHC Fragment messages is not an
                  All-1 SCHC Fragment, then the fragment sender MUST in
                  addition send after it a SCHC ACK REQ with the W field
                  corresponding to the last window.

               *  in doing the two items above, the sender MUST
                  ascertain that the receiver will not receive the last
                  tile through both a Regular SCHC Fragment and an All-1
                  SCHC Fragment.

         o  otherwise:

            +  if the SCHC ACK shows no missing tile at the receiver,
               the sender MUST send the All-1 SCHC Fragment

            +  otherwise:

               *  the fragment sender MUST send SCHC Fragment messages
                  containing all the tiles that are reported missing in
                  the SCHC ACK.

               *  the fragment sender MUST then send either the All-1
                  SCHC Fragment or a SCHC ACK REQ with the W field
                  corresponding to the last window.

   *  otherwise, the fragment sender:

      -  MUST send SCHC Fragment messages containing the tiles that are
         reported missing in the SCHC ACK.

      -  then, it MAY send a SCHC ACK REQ with the W field corresponding
         to the last window.

   See Figure 43 for one among several possible examples of a Finite
   State Machine implementing a sender behavior obeying this
   specification.

8.4.3.2.  Receiver Behavior

   On receiving a SCHC Fragment with a RuleID and DTag pair not being
   processed at that time:

   *  the receiver SHOULD check if the DTag value has not recently been
      used for that RuleID value, thereby ensuring that the received
      SCHC Fragment is not a remnant of a prior fragmented SCHC Packet
      transmission.  The initial value of the Inactivity Timer is the
      RECOMMENDED lifetime for the DTag value at the receiver.  If the
      SCHC Fragment is determined to be such a remnant, the receiver MAY
      silently ignore it and discard it.

   *  the receiver MUST start a process to assemble a new SCHC Packet
      with that RuleID and DTag value pair.  The receiver MUST start an
      Inactivity Timer for that RuleID and DTag value pair.  It MUST
      initialize an Attempts counter to 0 for that RuleID and DTag value
      pair.  If the receiver is under-resourced to do this, it MUST
      respond to the sender with a SCHC Receiver-Abort.

   On reception of any SCHC F/R message for the RuleID and DTag pair
   being processed, the receiver MUST reset the Inactivity Timer
   pertaining to that RuleID and DTag pair.

   All message receptions being discussed in the rest of this section
   are to be understood as "matching the RuleID and DTag pair being
   processed", even if not spelled out, for brevity.

   On receiving a SCHC Fragment message, the receiver determines what
   tiles were received, based on the payload length and on the W and FCN
   fields of the SCHC Fragment.

   *  if the FCN is All-1, if a Payload is present, the full SCHC
      Fragment Payload MUST be assembled including the padding bits.
      This is because the size of the last tile is not known by the
      receiver; therefore, padding bits are indistinguishable from the
      tile data bits, at this stage.  They will be removed by the SCHC
      C/D sublayer.  If the size of the SCHC Fragment Payload exceeds or
      equals the size of one regular tile plus the size of an L2 Word,
      this SHOULD raise an error flag.

   *  otherwise, tiles MUST be assembled based on the a priori known
      tile size.

      -  If allowed by the Profile, the end of the payload MAY contain
         the last tile, which may be shorter.  Padding bits are
         indistinguishable from the tile data bits, at this stage.

      -  The payload may contain the penultimate tile that, if allowed
         by the Profile, MAY be exactly one L2 Word shorter than the
         regular tile size.

      -  Otherwise, padding bits MUST be discarded.  This is possible
         because:

         o  the size of the tiles is known a priori,

         o  tiles are larger than an L2 Word, and

         o  padding bits are always strictly less than an L2 Word.

   On receiving a SCHC ACK REQ or an All-1 SCHC Fragment:

   *  if the receiver knows of any windows with missing tiles for the
      packet being reassembled, it MUST return a SCHC ACK for the
      lowest-numbered such window:

   *  otherwise:

      -  if it has received at least one tile, it MUST return a SCHC ACK
         for the highest-numbered window it currently has tiles for,

      -  otherwise, it MUST return a SCHC ACK for window numbered 0.

   A Profile MAY specify other times and circumstances at which a
   receiver sends a SCHC ACK, and which window the SCHC ACK reports
   about in these circumstances.

   Upon sending a SCHC ACK, the receiver MUST increase the Attempts
   counter.

   After receiving an All-1 SCHC Fragment, a receiver MUST check the
   integrity of the reassembled SCHC Packet at least every time it
   prepares for sending a SCHC ACK for the last window.

   Upon receiving a SCHC Sender-Abort, the receiver MAY exit with an
   error condition.

   Upon expiration of the Inactivity Timer, the receiver MUST send a
   SCHC Receiver-Abort, and it MAY exit with an error condition.

   On the Attempts counter exceeding MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, the receiver MUST
   send a SCHC Receiver-Abort, and it MAY exit with an error condition.

   Reassembly of the SCHC Packet concludes when:

   *  a Sender-Abort has been received, or

   *  the Inactivity Timer has expired, or

   *  the Attempts counter has exceeded MAX_ACK_REQUESTS, or

   *  at least an All-1 SCHC Fragment has been received and integrity
      checking of the reassembled SCHC Packet is successful.

   See Figure 44 for one among several possible examples of a Finite
   State Machine implementing a receiver behavior obeying this
   specification.  The example provided is meant to match the sender
   Finite State Machine of Figure 43.